modules/ROOT/pages/quickstart.adoc, before:

= Apiman Quickstart
Marc Savy <marc@rhymewithgravy.com>
:gw-install-walkthrough: xref:vertx/install.adoc
:docker-compose-distro: https://github.com/apiman/apiman-docker/releases/download/{apiman-version-release}/apiman-docker-compose-{apiman-version-release}.zip

== Docker Compose

The easiest way to try Apiman is with our Docker Compose distribution.
It is also arranged in a way that is more representative of a real-world deployment; broken down into its constituent parts, with all features enabled, and using a production-grade database.

. Download the {docker-compose-distro}[Apiman Docker Compose distribution^].
. `unzip apiman-docker-compose-{apiman-version-release}.zip && cd apiman-docker-compose-{apiman-version-release}`
. `docker-compose -f docker-compose.setup.yml up`
. `docker-compose up`
. Open http://apiman.local.gd:8080/apimanui
. 🎉 Success!

[TIP]
====
* Refer to the distro's **`README.adoc`** for more information, it's in the root of the zip.
You will find a list of endpoints, including devportal and a mock mail server.

* It may take a short while to boot all services and for the Apiman endpoints to become available, especially if you are using a system with virtualised container support (e.g. Windows).

* Don't forget to look at `.env` for a variety of useful settings.
====

Commit message:

docs(quickstart): add maintainer message for feedback on Docker Compose image

modules/ROOT/pages/quickstart.adoc, after:

= Apiman Quickstart
Marc Savy <marc@rhymewithgravy.com>
:gw-install-walkthrough: xref:vertx/install.adoc
:docker-compose-distro: https://github.com/apiman/apiman-docker/releases/download/{apiman-version-release}/apiman-docker-compose-{apiman-version-release}.zip

== Docker Compose

[.MaintainerMessage]
****
The Apiman Docker Compose distro is new in Apiman 3.
We need your feedback, support, and suggestions.

Please leave your thoughts in https://github.com/apiman/apiman/discussions/2274[this GitHub Discussions thread^].
****

The easiest way to try Apiman is with our Docker Compose distribution.
It is also arranged in a way that is more representative of a real-world deployment; broken down into its constituent parts, with all features enabled, and using a production-grade database.

. Download the {docker-compose-distro}[Apiman Docker Compose distribution^].
. `unzip apiman-docker-compose-{apiman-version-release}.zip && cd apiman-docker-compose-{apiman-version-release}`
. `docker-compose -f docker-compose.setup.yml up`
. `docker-compose up`
. Open http://apiman.local.gd:8080/apimanui
. 🎉 Success!

[TIP]
====
* Refer to the distro's **`README.adoc`** for more information, it's in the root of the zip.
You will find a list of endpoints, including devportal and a mock mail server.

* It may take a short while to boot all services and for the Apiman endpoints to become available, especially if you are using a system with virtualised container support (e.g. Windows).

* Don't forget to look at `.env` for a variety of useful settings.
====
