modules/ROOT/pages/registries-and-components/elasticsearch.adoc, before:

= Elasticsearch Registry & Components
Marc Savy <marc@rhymewithgravy.com>

TIP: Many of the shipped configurations make use of variable substitution to reduce repetition.

Apiman components for https://www.elastic.co[Elasticsearch^].

[#_global_required_parameters]
== Global Required Parameters

[cols="2,1,4",options="header"]
|===

| Name
| Type
| Description

| `client.type`
| String
a| The Elasticsearch client type:

* *Default Value*: es

| `client.protocol`
| Enum
a| The Elasticsearch protocol to use

* *Default Value*: http
* *Allowed Values*: http, https

| `client.indexPrefix`
| String
a| Elasticsearch index prefix

* *Default Value*: name of component

| `client.host`
| String
a| The ES host

| `client.port`
| Integer
a| The ES port

| `client.timeout`
| Integer
a| Client timeout (milliseconds)

* *Default Value*: 10000
* *Allowed Values*: 0 infinite timeout or any positive int

|===

[#_global_optional_parameters]
== Global Optional Parameters

[cols="2,1,4",options="header"]
|===

| Name
| Type
| Description

| `client.index`
| String
a| An alternative Elasticsearch index name.

| `client.initialize`
| Boolean
a| Initialise the storage

| `client.username`
| String
a| Username if using an auth mechanism like SearchGuard, Shield, etc

| `client.password`
| String
a| Password if using an auth mechanism like SearchGuard, Shield, etc

| `client.keystore.path`
| String
a| Path to the client KeyStore

| `client.keystore.format`
| Enum
a| Format of keystore

* *Default Value*: jks
* *Allowed Values*: pkcs12, jks

| `client.keystore.password`
| String
a| Password for the client KeyStore

| `client.truststore.path`
| String
a| Path to the TrustStore

| `client.truststore.format`
| Enum
a| Format of truststore

* *Default Value*: jks
* *Allowed Values*: pkcs12, jks

| `client.truststore.password`
| String
a| Password for the TrustStore

| `client.allowSelfSigned` / `client.trust.certificate`
| Boolean
a| Trust self-signed certificates

* *Default Value*: false

| `client.allowAnyHost` / `client.trust.host`
| Boolean
a| Disable hostname verification checks

* *Default Value*: false

| `client.trustAll`
| Boolean
a| Trust all SSL endpoints without any checks (use with great care)

* *Default Value*: false

| `client.pollingTime` / `client.polling.time`
| String
a| Polling frequency for client attempting connection to Elasticsearch (milliseconds). This is only relevant if the client is unable to connect on first attempt.

* *Default Value*: 600

|===

[#_registry]
== Registry

Assign your chosen implementation as shown in the example, providing configuration.

[tabset]
====
Properties (Servlet)::
+
--
[source,properties]
----
apiman-gateway.registry=io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.PollCachingESRegistry
----
--
JSON (Vert.x)::
+
--
[source,json5]
----
{
  "registry": {
    "class": "io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.PollCachingESRegistry",
    "config": {
      // <registry configuration>
    }
  }
}
----
--
====

.Available implementations:
[cols="2", options="header"]
|===

| Implementation
| Notes

| `io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.PollCachingESRegistry`
| *Recommended*. Works well in multi-node setups.

| `io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.CachingESRegistry`
| Works well in single-node setups.

| `io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESRegistry`
| Only recommended for very low volume or test setups; causes remote calls to be issued on every request.

|===

=== Required Parameters

Refer also to <<Global Required Parameters>>.

[cols="2,1,4", options="header"]
|===

| Name
| Type
| Description

| `cache-polling-interval`
| Integer
a| Cache polling interval in seconds.

* *Default Value*: 10
* *Implementations*: PollCachingESRegistry

|===

=== Optional Parameters

Refer also to <<Global Optional Parameters>>.

[cols="2,1,4", options="header"]
|===

| Name
| Type
| Description

| `cache-polling-startup-delay`
| Integer
a| Polling startup delay in seconds.

* *Default Value*: 30
* *Implementations*: PollCachingESRegistry

|===

[#_metrics]
== Metrics

Set the metrics implementation as shown.

[tabset]
====
Properties (Servlet)::
+
--
[source,properties]
----
apiman-gateway.metrics=io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESMetrics
----
--
JSON (Vert.x)::
+
--
[source,json5]
----
{
  "metrics": {
    "class": "io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESMetrics",
    "config": {
      "client": {
         "type": "es",
         "protocol": "${apiman.es.protocol}",
         "host": "${apiman.es.host}",
         "port": "${apiman.es.port}"
         // <metrics configuration>
       }
     }
  }
}
----
--
====

Set the Apiman Manager metrics accessor implementation to enable Apiman Manager UI to provide some basic visualisations from your Elasticsearch data.

[TIP]
====
* A commented-out segment should be in your `apiman.properties` already.

* All the same global <<_global_required_parameters, required>> and <<_global_optional_parameters, optional>> options are available.
====

[source,properties]
----
# API Manager metrics settings.
apiman-manager.metrics.type=io.apiman.manager.api.es.EsMetricsAccessor

apiman-manager.metrics.es.client.type=es
# All options available as in global mandatory and optional
apiman-manager.metrics.es.client.protocol=${apiman.es.protocol}
apiman-manager.metrics.es.client.host=${apiman.es.host}
apiman-manager.metrics.es.client.port=${apiman.es.port}

----

=== Servlet

.Available implementations:
[cols="2", options="header"]
|===

| Implementation
| Notes

| `io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESMetrics`
| Batching ES metrics

|===

=== Required Parameters

Refer also to <<Global Required Parameters>>.

[cols="2,1,4", options="header"]
|===

| Name
| Type
| Description

| `queue.size`
| Integer
a| Maximum metrics queue size

* *Default Value*: 10000

| `batch.size`
| Integer
a| Maximum metrics batching size

* *Default Value*: 1000

| `custom.headers.request`
| String[]
a| Case-insensitive list of _request_ headers to capture, for example `X-Correlation-Id`.

| `custom.headers.response`
| String[]
a| Case-insensitive list of _response_ headers to capture

| `custom.query-params`
| String[]
a| Case-insensitive list of HTTP https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string[query parameters^] to capture

|===

NOTE: For custom header and query param capture, we add entries into the Elasticsearch index dynamically using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/dynamic-templates.html[dynamic templates^].

// Rate limiting.
== Components

[#_shared_state]
=== Shared State

Set shared state implementation as shown.

[tabset]
====
Properties (Servlet)::
+
--
[source,properties]
----
apiman-gateway.components.ISharedStateComponent=io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESSharedStateComponent
apiman-gateway.components.ISharedStateComponent.client.type=es
# <other configuration options>
----
--
JSON (Vert.x)::
+
--
[source,json5]
----
{
  "components": {
    // Shared State Component Settings
    "ISharedStateComponent": {
      "class": "io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESSharedStateComponent",
      "config": {
        "client": {
          "type": "es",
          "protocol": "${apiman.es.protocol}",
          "host": "${apiman.es.host}",
          "port": "${apiman.es.port}"
          //<configuration options>
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
--
====

==== Required Parameters

Refer to <<Global Required Parameters>>.

[#_rate_limiter]
=== Rate Limiter

Set rate limiter implementation as shown.

[tabset]
====
Properties (Servlet)::
+
--
[source,properties]
----
apiman-gateway.components.IRateLimiterComponent=io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESRateLimiterComponent
apiman-gateway.components.IRateLimiterComponent.client.type=es
# <configuration options>
----
--
JSON (Vert.x)::
+
--
[source,json5]
----
{
  "components": {
    // Rate Limiter Component Settings
    "IRateLimiterComponent": {
      "class": "io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESRateLimiterComponent",
      "config": {
        "client": {
          "type": "es",
          "protocol": "${apiman.es.protocol}",
          "host": "${apiman.es.host}",
          "port": "${apiman.es.port}"
          // <configuration options>
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
--
====

==== Required Parameters

Refer to <<Global Required Parameters>>.

[#_cache_store]
=== Cache Store

Set cache store implementation as shown.

[tabset]
====
Properties (Servlet)::
+
--
[source,properties]
----
apiman-gateway.components.ICacheStoreComponent=io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.EsCacheStoreComponent
apiman-gateway.components.ICacheStoreComponent.client.type=es
# <configuration options>
----
--
JSON (Vert.x)::
+
--
[source,json5]
----
{
  "components": {
    // Cache Store Component Settings
    "ICacheStoreComponent": {
      "class": "io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESCacheStoreComponent",
      "config": {
        "client": {
          "type": "es",
          "protocol": "${apiman.es.protocol}",
          "host": "${apiman.es.host}",
          "port": "${apiman.es.port}"
          // <configuration options>
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
--
====

==== Required Parameters

Refer to <<Global Required Parameters>>.

Commit message:

docs(es): add `write-to` metrics option

modules/ROOT/pages/registries-and-components/elasticsearch.adoc, after:

= Elasticsearch Registry & Components
Marc Savy <marc@rhymewithgravy.com>

TIP: Many of the shipped configurations make use of variable substitution to reduce repetition.

Apiman components for https://www.elastic.co[Elasticsearch^].

[#_global_required_parameters]
== Global Required Parameters

[cols="2,1,4",options="header"]
|===

| Name
| Type
| Description

| `client.type`
| String
a| The Elasticsearch client type:

* *Default Value*: es

| `client.protocol`
| Enum
a| The Elasticsearch protocol to use

* *Default Value*: http
* *Allowed Values*: http, https

| `client.indexPrefix`
| String
a| Elasticsearch index prefix

* *Default Value*: name of component

| `client.host`
| String
a| The ES host

| `client.port`
| Integer
a| The ES port

| `client.timeout`
| Integer
a| Client timeout (milliseconds)

* *Default Value*: 10000
* *Allowed Values*: 0 infinite timeout or any positive int

|===

[#_global_optional_parameters]
== Global Optional Parameters

[cols="2,1,4",options="header"]
|===

| Name
| Type
| Description

| `client.index`
| String
a| An alternative Elasticsearch index name.

| `client.initialize`
| Boolean
a| Initialise the storage

| `client.username`
| String
a| Username if using an auth mechanism like SearchGuard, Shield, etc

| `client.password`
| String
a| Password if using an auth mechanism like SearchGuard, Shield, etc

| `client.keystore.path`
| String
a| Path to the client KeyStore

| `client.keystore.format`
| Enum
a| Format of keystore

* *Default Value*: jks
* *Allowed Values*: pkcs12, jks

| `client.keystore.password`
| String
a| Password for the client KeyStore

| `client.truststore.path`
| String
a| Path to the TrustStore

| `client.truststore.format`
| Enum
a| Format of truststore

* *Default Value*: jks
* *Allowed Values*: pkcs12, jks

| `client.truststore.password`
| String
a| Password for the TrustStore

| `client.allowSelfSigned` / `client.trust.certificate`
| Boolean
a| Trust self-signed certificates

* *Default Value*: false

| `client.allowAnyHost` / `client.trust.host`
| Boolean
a| Disable hostname verification checks

* *Default Value*: false

| `client.trustAll`
| Boolean
a| Trust all SSL endpoints without any checks (use with great care)

* *Default Value*: false

| `client.pollingTime` / `client.polling.time`
| String
a| Polling frequency for client attempting connection to Elasticsearch (milliseconds). This is only relevant if the client is unable to connect on first attempt.

* *Default Value*: 600

|===

[#_registry]
== Registry

Assign your chosen implementation as shown in the example, providing configuration.

[tabset]
====
Properties (Servlet)::
+
--
[source,properties]
----
apiman-gateway.registry=io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.PollCachingESRegistry
----
--
JSON (Vert.x)::
+
--
[source,json5]
----
{
  "registry": {
    "class": "io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.PollCachingESRegistry",
    "config": {
      // <registry configuration>
    }
  }
}
----
--
====

.Available implementations:
[cols="2", options="header"]
|===

| Implementation
| Notes

| `io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.PollCachingESRegistry`
| *Recommended*. Works well in multi-node setups.

| `io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.CachingESRegistry`
| Works well in single-node setups.

| `io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESRegistry`
| Only recommended for very low volume or test setups; causes remote calls to be issued on every request.

|===

=== Required Parameters

Refer also to <<Global Required Parameters>>.

[cols="2,1,4", options="header"]
|===

| Name
| Type
| Description

| `cache-polling-interval`
| Integer
a| Cache polling interval in seconds.

* *Default Value*: 10
* *Implementations*: PollCachingESRegistry

|===

=== Optional Parameters

Refer also to <<Global Optional Parameters>>.

[cols="2,1,4", options="header"]
|===

| Name
| Type
| Description

| `cache-polling-startup-delay`
| Integer
a| Polling startup delay in seconds.

* *Default Value*: 30
* *Implementations*: PollCachingESRegistry

|===

[#_metrics]
== Metrics

Set the metrics implementation as shown.

[tabset]
====
Properties (Servlet)::
+
--
[source,properties]
----
apiman-gateway.metrics=io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESMetrics
----
--
JSON (Vert.x)::
+
--
[source,json5]
----
{
  "metrics": {
    "class": "io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESMetrics",
    "config": {
      "client": {
         "type": "es",
         "protocol": "${apiman.es.protocol}",
         "host": "${apiman.es.host}",
         "port": "${apiman.es.port}"
         // <metrics configuration>
       }
     }
  }
}
----
--
====

Set the Apiman Manager metrics accessor implementation to enable Apiman Manager UI to provide some basic visualisations from your Elasticsearch data.

[TIP]
====
* A commented-out segment should be in your `apiman.properties` already.

* All the same global <<_global_required_parameters, required>> and <<_global_optional_parameters, optional>> options are available.
====

[source,properties]
----
# API Manager metrics settings.
apiman-manager.metrics.type=io.apiman.manager.api.es.EsMetricsAccessor

apiman-manager.metrics.es.client.type=es
# All options available as in global mandatory and optional
apiman-manager.metrics.es.client.protocol=${apiman.es.protocol}
apiman-manager.metrics.es.client.host=${apiman.es.host}
apiman-manager.metrics.es.client.port=${apiman.es.port}

----

=== Optional Parameters

Refer also to <<Global Required Parameters>>.

[cols="2,1,4", options="header"]
|===

| Name
| Type
| Description

| `queue.size`
| Integer
a| Maximum metrics queue size

* *Default Value*: 10000

| `batch.size`
| Integer
a| Maximum metrics batching size

* *Default Value*: 1000

| `custom.headers.request`
| String[]
a| Case-insensitive list of _request_ headers to capture, for example `X-Correlation-Id`.

| `custom.headers.response`
| String[]
a| Case-insensitive list of _response_ headers to capture

| `custom.query-params`
| String[]
a| Case-insensitive list of HTTP https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string[query parameters^] to capture

| `write-to`
| String[]
a| Case-insensitive list of destinations to write Elasticsearch logs.

Rather than solely pushing metrics directly to the Elasticsearch server, Apiman can also write the metrics to a log file as JSON (e.g. for scraping).

* *Default Value*: `REMOTE`
* *Allowed Values*: `REMOTE`, `LOG` (both permissible at once)
* *File Location*:
** WildFly: `standalone/log/metrics.log`
** Tomcat: `logs/apiman/metrics.log`

|===

NOTE: For custom header and query param capture, we add entries into the Elasticsearch index dynamically using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/dynamic-templates.html[dynamic templates^].

// Rate limiting.
== Components

[#_shared_state]
=== Shared State

Set shared state implementation as shown.

[tabset]
====
Properties (Servlet)::
+
--
[source,properties]
----
apiman-gateway.components.ISharedStateComponent=io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESSharedStateComponent
apiman-gateway.components.ISharedStateComponent.client.type=es
# <other configuration options>
----
--
JSON (Vert.x)::
+
--
[source,json5]
----
{
  "components": {
    // Shared State Component Settings
    "ISharedStateComponent": {
      "class": "io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESSharedStateComponent",
      "config": {
        "client": {
          "type": "es",
          "protocol": "${apiman.es.protocol}",
          "host": "${apiman.es.host}",
          "port": "${apiman.es.port}"
          //<configuration options>
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
--
====

==== Required Parameters

Refer to <<Global Required Parameters>>.

[#_rate_limiter]
=== Rate Limiter

Set rate limiter implementation as shown.

[tabset]
====
Properties (Servlet)::
+
--
[source,properties]
----
apiman-gateway.components.IRateLimiterComponent=io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESRateLimiterComponent
apiman-gateway.components.IRateLimiterComponent.client.type=es
# <configuration options>
----
--
JSON (Vert.x)::
+
--
[source,json5]
----
{
  "components": {
    // Rate Limiter Component Settings
    "IRateLimiterComponent": {
      "class": "io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESRateLimiterComponent",
      "config": {
        "client": {
          "type": "es",
          "protocol": "${apiman.es.protocol}",
          "host": "${apiman.es.host}",
          "port": "${apiman.es.port}"
          // <configuration options>
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
--
====

==== Required Parameters

Refer to <<Global Required Parameters>>.

[#_cache_store]
=== Cache Store

Set cache store implementation as shown.

[tabset]
====
Properties (Servlet)::
+
--
[source,properties]
----
apiman-gateway.components.ICacheStoreComponent=io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.EsCacheStoreComponent
apiman-gateway.components.ICacheStoreComponent.client.type=es
# <configuration options>
----
--
JSON (Vert.x)::
+
--
[source,json5]
----
{
  "components": {
    // Cache Store Component Settings
    "ICacheStoreComponent": {
      "class": "io.apiman.gateway.engine.es.ESCacheStoreComponent",
      "config": {
        "client": {
          "type": "es",
          "protocol": "${apiman.es.protocol}",
          "host": "${apiman.es.host}",
          "port": "${apiman.es.port}"
          // <configuration options>
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
--
====

==== Required Parameters

Refer to <<Global Required Parameters>>.
